Katie's edits (#4)
rossyndicate/fcw_qaqc: vignettes/The_PWQN_AutoQAQC_Pipeline_in_Synapse.Rmd

The newly processed data is merged with relevant historical data and enriched with field technician observations to provide context for quality analysis.

## 4.4 Generate Summary Statistics for the Pre-processed Data

For each site-parameter combination, the system calculates contextual statistics like rolling averages, medians, and rate-of-change (slope) metrics used in subsequent quality checks.

# 5. Auto-QAQC Flagging

The flagging process is the core of the quality control system, applying multiple layers of checks to identify potential data quality issues. The pipeline uses a hierarchical approach that progresses from individual parameter assessments to site-level relationships and finally to network-wide patterns.

## 5.1 Read in Thresholds for Flagging

Before quality checks can be performed, the system loads reference thresholds that define acceptable measurement ranges based on both sensor specifications and expected environmental conditions.

### 5.1.1 Sensor Specification Thresholds

Manufacturer-defined operating ranges for each sensor type establish the fundamental physical limitations of the measurement equipment.

### 5.1.2 Sensor Specific Seasonal Thresholds

> Historical analysis provides expected value ranges for each parameter by season and location, accounting for natural environmental variations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expected value ranges for each parameter by season and location, accounting for natural environmental variations. 

Each sensor's seasonal thresholds were established via historical data analysis of previous years' sensor data. If data quantity or quality created an issue in creating these thresholds, they were established manually through expert knowledge of the system. As more data is verified and the quantity/quality issues continue to improve, those manually established thresholds will be updated with the thresholds established through the more rigorous historical data analysis of the data.
```

The newly processed data is merged with relevant historical data and enriched with field technician observations to provide context for quality analysis.

## 4.4 Generate Summary Statistics for the Pre-processed Data

For each site-parameter combination, the system calculates contextual statistics like rolling averages, medians, and rate-of-change (slope) metrics used in subsequent quality checks.

# 5. Auto-QAQC Flagging

The flagging process is the core of the quality control system, applying multiple layers of checks to identify potential data quality issues. The pipeline uses a hierarchical approach that progresses from individual parameter assessments to site-level relationships and finally to network-wide patterns.

## 5.1 Read in Thresholds for Flagging

Before quality checks can be performed, the system loads reference thresholds that define acceptable measurement ranges based on both sensor specifications and expected environmental conditions.

### 5.1.1 Sensor Specification Thresholds

Manufacturer-defined operating ranges for each sensor type establish the fundamental physical limitations of the measurement equipment.

### 5.1.2 Sensor Specific Seasonal Thresholds

> Expected value ranges for each parameter by season and location, accounting for natural environmental variations. 

Author: ```suggestion
We created expected value ranges for each parameter by season and location. This was done through historical analysis paired with expert knowledge of the Poudre River.
```

> Each sensor's seasonal thresholds were established via historical data analysis of previous years' sensor data. If data quantity or quality created an issue in creating these thresholds, they were established manually through expert knowledge of the system. As more data is verified and the quantity/quality issues continue to improve, those manually established thresholds will be updated with the thresholds established through the more rigorous historical data analysis of the data.

Author: ```suggestion
Each sensor's seasonal thresholds were established via historical data analysis of the 2023 field campaign's sensor data. If data quantity or quality created an issue in creating these thresholds, they were established manually through expert knowledge of the system. As more data is verified and the quantity/quality issues continue to improve, those manually established thresholds can be updated.
```
